Quoddy is part of the ScrewPile suite of tools for building intelligent applications.

Why "Quoddy?"

We like lighthouses, so Quoddy is named after the famous West Quoddy Head Lighthouse.

Ok, but what does it do?

Quoddy is basically a sort of "mini Facebook" like social-networking interface. It builds on the APIs for 
social-graph management, activity-stream, activity profiling, tagging, etc. Provides the front-end 
for managing connections and for letting users provide information about themselves, their interests, 
etc. But unlike Facebook, no silly Pirates vs. Ninjas or Farmville stuff.

How does it work?

Quoddy stores information about users, relationships between those users (eg, "friend", "follower," etc), groups,
relationships between users and "things" that are of interest to the user, and provides for management of those
relationships, as well as using those relationships to show a user updates regarding activity within their
network (of friends, followers and other "things).

Quoddy can also be combined with Neddick (https://github.com/fogbeam/Neddick) and Heceta (https://github.com/fogbeam/Heceta)
to provide a rich, tightly integrated platform for knowledge discovery, navigation and management.

What about OpenSocial?

Work is currently underway to add OpenSocial container support, using Apache Shindig.  When finished, this work
will allow a Quoddy instance to host any valid OpenSocial application.

How to build & run Quoddy?

First, you'll need Grails (and associated dependencies, such as a JVM) installed and
working.  If you can run the 'grails' command from the command line, you are ready to go.
Quoddy is currently based on Grails 1.3.3; making it work with different versions may take
some effort.

Next, you'll need an LDAP server installed and running.  We've only tested against
ApacheDS so far.  

##TODO: finish the bit about configuring LDAP.

(IMPORTANT NOTE: LDAP won't always be mandatory.  Once "local accounts" support is finished, any
use of LDAP will be completely optional.)

There are currently no binary distributions, so you'll have to get the code from source control.  The most direct
route is to do a 'git clone' on the Quoddy repository on Github.  

Once you have the code, you'll need to A. create a database, and configure your DataSource.groovy file.  Create an
empty database (preferably in postgres), and then point to it in the DataSource.groovy config.  None of this is
ready for production yet, so you might as well make the "Development" datasource and the "Production" datasource the 
same, so it works whether you "grails run-app" or war it up and deploy to a server.

Once you're pointing to a database (make sure the login credentials are right as well), just do a "grails run-app"
from inside the directory where the code is checked out.  Once the server finishes starting, browse to
http://localhost:8080/ and you should get the Quoddy homepage.  

You can login as testuser1 with a password of 'secret', or you can modify Bootstrap.groovy to create
different default users.